bash/README.md, before:

# Bash script for logging of the spot price of electricity in Scandinavia

The ELPRIS bash script (`elpris.sh`) fetches the spot price of electricity in
Scandinavia via the API to https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/. In addition to
merely displaying the captured data, the ELPRIS script also saved it to a
JSON and CSV file, with naming convention data-ZONE-DATE.json and
data-ZONE-DATE.csv, respectively.

## Using the script
```
  Syntax: ./elpris.sh [-h|-g|-z <zone>|-d <date>]
  options:
   -h          Print this Help.
   -g          Print the GPL license notification.
   -z <zone>   Specify the zone for the spot price to be fetched, where
               <zone> is any of:
                     SE1 = Luleå / Norra Sverige
                     SE2 = Sundsvall / Norra Mellansverige
                     SE3 = Gotland / Stockholm / Södra Mellansverige
                     SE4 = Malmö / Södra Sverige
               If the -z option is omitted, then SE3 will be used as
               default. Example: 'elpris -z SE1'
   -d <date>   Specify the date for the spot price to be fetched, where
               <date> is specified as YYYYMMDD. If the -d option is
               omitted, then the current date will be used as default.
               Example: 'elpris -d 20250421'
   -o <dir>    Specify the output directory <dir> to which the ELPRIS
               script should save the fetched raw data as well as the
               standard text file summaries generated from it. If the
               -o option is omitted, then the current directory will be
               used for the default storage.
               Example: 'elpris -o ~/elpris/log/'
```

## Sample output from the script
```
Fetching spot price data for zone SE3 at 2025/04/22 (10:48).
Spot prices in JSON format saved to data-SE3-20250422.json
Spot prices in CSV format saved to data-SE3-20250422.csv
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
🔻 Lowest (at 00:00): 33.66400 öre/kWh
🔺 Highest (at 20:00): 292.29800 öre/kWh
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Time (start)           Öre/kWh    |min                                   max|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2025-04-22 00:00:00        33.7   ||                                        |
2025-04-22 01:00:00        34.1   ||                                        |
2025-04-22 02:00:00        41.7   | |                                       |
2025-04-22 03:00:00        46.6   |  |                                      |
2025-04-22 04:00:00        52.6   |  |                                      |
2025-04-22 05:00:00        61.5   |    |                                    |
2025-04-22 06:00:00        63.3   |    |                                    |
2025-04-22 07:00:00       146.6   |                 |                       |
2025-04-22 08:00:00       184.4   |                       |                 |
2025-04-22 09:00:00       125.0   |              |                          |
2025-04-22 10:00:00       105.5   |           |                             |
2025-04-22 11:00:00        99.7   |          |                              |
2025-04-22 12:00:00        90.4   |        |                                |
2025-04-22 13:00:00        73.0   |      |                                  |
2025-04-22 14:00:00        79.4   |       |                                 |
2025-04-22 15:00:00        87.1   |        |                                |
2025-04-22 16:00:00        92.7   |         |                               |
2025-04-22 17:00:00       110.3   |           |                             |
2025-04-22 18:00:00       134.4   |               |                         |
2025-04-22 19:00:00       211.4   |                           |             |
2025-04-22 20:00:00       292.3   |                                        ||
2025-04-22 21:00:00       172.1   |                     |                   |
2025-04-22 22:00:00       131.9   |               |                         |
2025-04-22 23:00:00       114.3   |            |                            |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## Installation

Installation in a Linux/OSX/Unix machine is simple. In order to install the
script and a symbolic link in the default location `/usr/local/bin/`, simply
exectute the following in a terminal:
```bash
cd bash; sudo make install
```
If you wish the script to be installed elsewhere, simpley edit the `TARGET`
field in the enclosed `bash/Makefile`.

## The API used for fetching spot price of electricity

Before proceeding with the instructions for installation and configuration,
let's just mention a few words about the way data for the spot price is
fetched. The application, which is written in Python, makes use of the free
API at https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/elpris-api, with the syntax simply being
`https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/api/v1/prices/[YEAR]/[MONTH]-[DAY]_[ZONE].json`

where

| Variable | Description                                       | Example |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|---------|
|  YEAR    | Four digits                                       |    2025 |
|  MONTH   | Always two digits, with leading zero              |      04 |
|  DAY     | Always two digits, with leading zero              |      20 |
|  ZONE    |   SE1 = Luleå / Norra Sverige                     |         |
|          |   SE2 = Sundsvall / Norra Mellansverige           |         |
|          |   SE3 = Gotland / Stockholm / Södra Mellansverige |         |
|          |   SE4 = Malmö / Södra Sverige                     |  SE3    |

As an example, to fetch today's spot price of electricity at Gotland, Sweden
(April 20, 2025, zone SE3), simply use the call
`GET https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/api/v1/prices/2025/04-20_SE3.json`

## Copyright
Copyright (C) 2025, Fredrik Jonsson, under GPLv3. See enclosed LICENSE.

## Location of master source code
The source and documentation can be found at https://github.com/hp35/elpris

Commit message:

Adding cleanup for a "clean" mode of operation, not leaving any files remaining after the call.

bash/README.md, after:

# Bash script for logging of the spot price of electricity in Scandinavia

The ELPRIS bash script (`elpris.sh`) fetches the spot price of electricity in
Scandinavia via the API to https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/. In addition to
merely displaying the captured data, the ELPRIS script also saved it to a
JSON and CSV file, with naming convention data-ZONE-DATE.json and
data-ZONE-DATE.csv, respectively.

If used with the -o option, the script also generates human-readable textfiles
containing summaries in two different forms: A short brief list with minimum,
maximum and hourly rates, and a similar one in which we also include a simple
ASCII graph illustrating the daily evolution of the price between its minimum
and maximum.

## Using the script
```
  Syntax: ./elpris.sh [-h|-g|-z <zone>|-d <date>|-o <dir>|-c]
  options:
   -h          Print this Help.
   -g          Print the GPL license notification.
   -z <zone>   Specify the zone for the spot price to be fetched, where
               <zone> is any of:
                     SE1 = Luleå / Norra Sverige
                     SE2 = Sundsvall / Norra Mellansverige
                     SE3 = Gotland / Stockholm / Södra Mellansverige
                     SE4 = Malmö / Södra Sverige
               If the -z option is omitted, then SE3 will be used as
               default. Example: 'elpris -z SE1'
   -d <date>   Specify the date for the spot price to be fetched, where
               <date> is specified as YYYYMMDD. If the -d option is
               omitted, then the current date will be used as default.
               Example: 'elpris -d 20250421'
   -o <dir>    Specify the output directory <dir> to which the ELPRIS
             script should save the fetched raw data as well as the
             standard text file summaries generated from it. If the
             -o option is omitted, then the current directory will
             be used for the default storage. If you wish a clean
             execution without any remaining files, use the -c option
             described below. Example: 'elpris -o ~/elpris/log/'
   -c        Clean execution of the ELPRIS script, with only terminal
             output and no generated files left behind. This option
             overrides any setting specified by the -o option.
	     Example: 'elpris -c'
```

## Sample output from the script
```
Fetching spot price data for zone SE3 at 2025/04/22 (10:48).
Spot prices in JSON format saved to data-SE3-20250422.json
Spot prices in CSV format saved to data-SE3-20250422.csv
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
🔻 Lowest (at 00:00): 33.66400 öre/kWh
🔺 Highest (at 20:00): 292.29800 öre/kWh
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Time (start)           Öre/kWh    |min                                   max|
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2025-04-22 00:00:00        33.7   ||                                        |
2025-04-22 01:00:00        34.1   ||                                        |
2025-04-22 02:00:00        41.7   | |                                       |
2025-04-22 03:00:00        46.6   |  |                                      |
2025-04-22 04:00:00        52.6   |  |                                      |
2025-04-22 05:00:00        61.5   |    |                                    |
2025-04-22 06:00:00        63.3   |    |                                    |
2025-04-22 07:00:00       146.6   |                 |                       |
2025-04-22 08:00:00       184.4   |                       |                 |
2025-04-22 09:00:00       125.0   |              |                          |
2025-04-22 10:00:00       105.5   |           |                             |
2025-04-22 11:00:00        99.7   |          |                              |
2025-04-22 12:00:00        90.4   |        |                                |
2025-04-22 13:00:00        73.0   |      |                                  |
2025-04-22 14:00:00        79.4   |       |                                 |
2025-04-22 15:00:00        87.1   |        |                                |
2025-04-22 16:00:00        92.7   |         |                               |
2025-04-22 17:00:00       110.3   |           |                             |
2025-04-22 18:00:00       134.4   |               |                         |
2025-04-22 19:00:00       211.4   |                           |             |
2025-04-22 20:00:00       292.3   |                                        ||
2025-04-22 21:00:00       172.1   |                     |                   |
2025-04-22 22:00:00       131.9   |               |                         |
2025-04-22 23:00:00       114.3   |            |                            |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## Installation

Installation in a Linux/OSX/Unix machine is simple. In order to install the
script and a symbolic link in the default location `/usr/local/bin/`, simply
exectute the following in a terminal:
```bash
cd bash; sudo make install
```
If you wish the script to be installed elsewhere, simpley edit the `TARGET`
field in the enclosed `bash/Makefile`.

## The API used for fetching spot price of electricity

Before proceeding with the instructions for installation and configuration,
let's just mention a few words about the way data for the spot price is
fetched. The application, which is written in Python, makes use of the free
API at https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/elpris-api, with the syntax simply being
`https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/api/v1/prices/[YEAR]/[MONTH]-[DAY]_[ZONE].json`

where

| Variable | Description                                       | Example |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|---------|
|  YEAR    | Four digits                                       |    2025 |
|  MONTH   | Always two digits, with leading zero              |      04 |
|  DAY     | Always two digits, with leading zero              |      20 |
|  ZONE    |   SE1 = Luleå / Norra Sverige                     |         |
|          |   SE2 = Sundsvall / Norra Mellansverige           |         |
|          |   SE3 = Gotland / Stockholm / Södra Mellansverige |         |
|          |   SE4 = Malmö / Södra Sverige                     |  SE3    |

As an example, to fetch today's spot price of electricity at Gotland, Sweden
(April 20, 2025, zone SE3), simply use the call
`GET https://www.elprisetjustnu.se/api/v1/prices/2025/04-20_SE3.json`

## Copyright
Copyright (C) 2025, Fredrik Jonsson, under GPLv3. See enclosed LICENSE.

## Location of master source code
The source and documentation can be found at https://github.com/hp35/elpris
